OpenAI is collaborating with Broadcom and TSMC to develop custom AI
chips which are expected to begin production by
2026. ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå  ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå 


 Sign Up [1] |Advertise [2]|View Online [3] 

                TLDR

                TOGETHER WITH [Incogni] [4]

TLDR AI 2024-11-04

 YOUR ONLINE PRIVACY MATTERS. TAKE BACK CONTROL WITH INCOGNI (SPONSOR)
[4] 

 If you don't mind having your personal data available to every
spammer, scammer, and bad actor who's willing to pay for it, skip this
ad.

Still here? Check out Incogni [4] ‚Äî it's the hassle-free way to
protect your data privacy:

        * Incogni scans people search sites for your personal information
and sends removal requests on your behalf.
        * Within ¬±14 days, your records are off the dark corners of the
internet.
        * Every 10 days, Incogni does it all over again.
        * You stay in the loop with regular privacy reports.

Take back control. Reduce spam, scam, and cyber risk.

Get 60% off Incogni with code TLDRAI [4] (30 day money back guarantee)

üöÄ 

HEADLINES & LAUNCHES

 AMD'S NEW LANGUAGE MODELS (12 MINUTE READ) [5] 

 AMD used the OLMO codebase to train and release a language model
trained on its accelerators. 

 OASIS BY ETCHED & DECART (4 MINUTE READ) [6] 

 Etched and Decart's Oasis is an AI model that generates open-world
games frame-by-frame from user inputs, showcasing advanced physical
understanding and real-time interaction. Oasis uses a Diffusion
Transformer architecture optimized for the upcoming Sohu chip,
enabling large-scale, low-latency 4K video models. The model, which
integrates custom hardware for improved performance at scale,
represents a shift towards interactive AI-generated content. 

 OPENAI WILL START USING AMD CHIPS AND COULD MAKE ITS OWN AI HARDWARE
IN 2026 (2 MINUTE READ) [7] 

 OpenAI is collaborating with Broadcom and TSMC to develop custom AI
chips which are expected to begin production by 2026. Meanwhile,
OpenAI is integrating AMD's MI300 chips into its Microsoft Azure
infrastructure. Despite aligning with other tech giants on custom chip
strategies, OpenAI remains behind Google, Microsoft, and Amazon in
hardware development. 

üß† 

RESEARCH & INNOVATION

 3D SCENE RECONSTRUCTION WITHOUT CAMERA POSE (6 MINUTE READ) [8] 

 NoPoSplat is a feed-forward model that can reconstruct 3D scenes from
sparse, multi-view images without needing accurate camera poses. 

 IMPROVING LANGUAGE MODELS' REASONING (19 MINUTE READ) [9] 

 This study tackles a unique challenge in LLMs: how well they handle
reasoning prompts that contain irrelevant or incorrect rationale
snippets. 

 LONG-CONTEXT EVALUATION IN LANGUAGE MODELS (18 MINUTE READ) [10] 

 This study identifies a key flaw in using perplexity (PPL) to
evaluate LLMs' long-context capabilities - PPL averages across all
tokens and misses crucial ones needed for understanding extended
inputs. To improve this, the authors introduce LongPPL, a metric that
highlights these essential tokens for a clearer measure of
long-context performance. 

üßë‚Äçüíª 

ENGINEERING & RESOURCES

 SCALE AUTOMATED WEB TESTING WITHOUT SCALING HEADCOUNT (SPONSOR) [11] 

 QA Wolf (4.8 ‚≠ê on G2) [11] brings AI-level scale and efficiency to
testing, with unlimited parallel test runs on their cloud
infrastructure and a zero-flake guarantee.

80% automated test coverage [11] in just 4 months. Trusted by Cohere,
Autotrader, Salesloft and many others.

Learn about their 90-day pilot [11]

 FAST VS. SLOW THINKING IN LANGUAGE MODELS (GITHUB REPO) [12] 

 This project explores how different "thinking" approaches ‚Äî fast
(concise) versus slow (detailed, like chain-of-thought reasoning) ‚Äî
impact layer-wise gradients and stability in LLMs. 

 3D OBJECT DETECTION USING ONLY 2D IMAGES (GITHUB REPO) [13] 

 ImOV3D is a framework that advances open-vocabulary 3D object
detection (OV-3Det) by leveraging 2D images to overcome the scarcity
of 3D annotations. 

 REALISTIC MOTION IN TEXT-TO-VIDEO GENERATION (3 MINUTE READ) [14] 

 DEMO is a framework that separates text and conditioning into content
and motion components. By using distinct encoders and conditioning for
static content and dynamic motion, DEMO better interprets and
generates motion from text prompts. 

üéÅ 

MISCELLANEOUS

 PROJECT SID (4 MINUTE READ) [15] 

 Project Sid shows civilizational progress, specialization,
governance, and the invention and spread of memes and religion. These
were made possible by Altera's new cognitive architecture: PIANO. 

 WE'RE FORKING FLUTTER. THIS IS WHY (11 MINUTE READ) [16] 

 Google's corporate focus shift to AI has deprioritized Flutter's
desktop platforms, creating a labor shortage for this once rapidly
expanding UI toolkit. In response, a fork named Flock is being
developed to include essential bug fixes and features the Flutter team
can't tackle, aiming to accelerate Flutter's growth through community
involvement. Flock plans to improve contribution processes and
streamline PR reviews, bridging the gap in support and development
pace left by the main Flutter team. 

 USING REINFORCEMENT LEARNING AND $4.80 OF GPU TIME TO FIND THE BEST
HN POST EVER (RLHF PART 1) (11 MINUTE READ) [17] 

 This article discusses using reinforcement learning from human
feedback (RLHF) to develop a reward model that predicts upvote counts
for Hacker News stories. Leveraging a comprehensive dataset and $4.80
of GPU time, the reward model was trained on features like titles,
authors, and content to optimize for post quality, with the ultimate
goal of utilizing RLHF techniques to enhance the creation of
high-value content. The resulting model, while not perfect, can
successfully identify underappreciated stories and predict potential
front-page hits. 

‚ö° 

QUICK LINKS

 GOOGLE'S AI SEARCH SUMMARIES ARE ROLLING OUT TO OVER 100 MORE
COUNTRIES (1 MINUTE READ) [18] 

 Google's AI Overviews are expanding to over 100 countries, offering
AI-generated search summaries in multiple languages. 

 ELON MUSK FINALLY ADMITS TESLA'S HW3 MIGHT NOT SUPPORT FULL
SELF-DRIVING (3 MINUTE READ) [19] 

 Elon Musk admitted Tesla's HW3 might not support full self-driving
and that HW4 is significantly more capable. 

 NVIDIA ETHERNET NETWORKING ACCELERATES WORLD'S LARGEST AI
SUPERCOMPUTER, BUILT BY XAI (3 MINUTE READ) [20] 

 xAI's Colossus is powered by NVIDIA's Spectrum-X Ethernet networking
platform. 

Love TLDR? Tell your friends and get rewards!

 Share your referral link below with friends to get free TLDR swag! 

 https://refer.tldr.tech/ab19e64a/2 [21] 

                Track your referrals here. [22]

Want to advertise in TLDR? üì∞

 If your company is interested in reaching an audience of AI
professionals and decision makers, you may want to ADVERTISE WITH US
[23]. 

 If you have any comments or feedback, just respond to this email! 

Thanks for reading, 
Andrew Tan & Andrew Carr 

If you don't want to receive future editions of TLDR AI, please
unsubscribe from TLDR AI [24] or manage all of your TLDR newsletter
subscriptions [25]. 

