Apple is acquiring Pixelmator, a Lithuanian firm that makes popular
Mac-based photo editing tools, pending regulatory
approval. ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå  ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå ‚Äå 


 Sign Up [1] |Advertise [2]|View Online [3] 

                TLDR 

                TOGETHER WITH [WorkOS] [4]

TLDR 2024-11-04

 RBAC ‚Üí FGA: THE 2-PART MIGRATION GUIDE BY WORKOS (SPONSOR) [4] 

 RBAC tends to get complex and lacks flexibility, leading to role
explosion and a bad experience for both users and developers. Learn
the A-Z of making the switch to fine-grained authorization (FGA) with
these two blog posts:

Part 1: Designing your access model [5] ‚Äî how to define resources,
relationships, and inheritance rules, and how to test and validate.

Part 2: Integrating into your app [4] ‚Äî checking user access,
managing your FGA implementation, and favoring performance vs
consistency on a per request basis.

Read now or bookmark for later üîñ [5]

üì± 

BIG TECH & STARTUPS

 APPLE IS SNAPPING UP ONE OF THE BEST NON-ADOBE IMAGE EDITORS,
PIXELMATOR (2 MINUTE READ) [6] 

 Apple is acquiring Pixelmator, a Lithuanian firm that makes popular
Mac-based photo editing tools, pending regulatory approval. Regulatory
approval may be an issue - several large companies have had to abandon
deals due to opposition from EU regulators. It is unknown whether
Apple intends to integrate Pixelmator's features into its own apps or
allow the apps to remain separate standalone apps. Pixelmator Pro
recently introduced a number of AI and ML tools for adjusting photos
and creating masks, vector tools, and support for more RAW photo
formats and other design tool files. 

 GOOGLE'S 'BIG SLEEP' AI PROJECT UNCOVERS REAL SOFTWARE
VULNERABILITIES (3 MINUTE READ) [7] 

 Big Sleep is an AI agent designed to mimic the workflow of a human
security researcher. It recently discovered a previously unknown and
exploitable bug in SQLite. This may be the first public example of an
AI agent finding a previously unknown exploitable memory-safety issue
in widely used real-world software. 

üöÄ 

SCIENCE & FUTURISTIC TECHNOLOGY

 SPACEX WANTS TO TEST REFUELING STARSHIPS IN SPACE EARLY NEXT YEAR (3
MINUTE READ) [8] 

 SpaceX will attempt to transfer propellant from one orbiting Starship
to another as early as next March. The capability will enable an
uncrewed landing demonstration of a Starship on the moon. A crewed
landing is currently scheduled for September 2026. SpaceX recently
made history when it caught the Super Heavy rocket booster in mid-air
using 'chopsticks' attached to the launch tower. 

 SEMAGLUTIDE SO EFFECTIVE AT TREATING ARTHRITIS THAT PATIENTS WERE
‚ÄúMORE OR LESS WERE TREATED OUT OF THE STUDY‚Äù (2 MINUTE READ) [9] 

 A trial testing semaglutide on patients with knee osteoarthritis
conducted in 11 countries found that the drug was so effective at
treating the condition the participants no longer needed treatment by
the end of the experiment. The study involved 400 obese patients who
experienced pain when walking. The patients who received the drug lost
weight, felt significantly less pain, and experienced more ease of
everyday mobility compared to patients who received a placebo. Many of
the improvements were due to taking weight off the affected knees, but
the researchers think that semaglutide's anti-inflammatory effects
also played a role. 

üíª 

PROGRAMMING, DESIGN & DATA SCIENCE

 YOUR BRAND HERE (SPONSOR) [10] 

 If your audience is in tech, they read TLDR. Capture their attention
with a native ad placed at the top, middle or bottom of TLDR
newsletters. Learn more [11] about running your first campaign with
us. 

 PG_FLO (GITHUB REPO) [12] 

 pg_flo is a tool for moving and transforming data between PostgreSQL
databases using logical replication. It features real-time data
streaming, fast initial loads, powerful transformations, and flexible
routing. pg_flo can be used for real-time data replication between
PostgreSQL databases, ETL pipelines with data transformation, data
re-routing, masking, and filtering, database migration with zero
downtime, and event streaming from PostgreSQL. 

 CASH (GITHUB REPO) [13] 

 Cash is a jQuery alternative for modern browsers that utilizes modern
browser features. It provides a jQuery-style syntax for manipulating
the DOM. Cash doesn't have full feature parity with jQuery, but it
covers most day-to-day use cases. 

üéÅ 

MISCELLANEOUS

 WHAT IF A.I. IS ACTUALLY GOOD FOR HOLLYWOOD? (26 MINUTE READ) [14] 

 AI can be used to create films that were not possible just a few
years ago. It can help create special effects that would otherwise
require hundreds of VFX artists, tens of millions of dollars, and
months of post-production work in just minutes. AI has the potential
to disrupt many aspects of the film industry. This article takes a
look at how some filmmakers are using AI to create movies and
discusses the impact that AI will have on movie-making. 

 TOUCHSCREENS ARE OUT, AND TACTILE CONTROLS ARE BACK (6 MINUTE READ)
[15] 

 Designers are reintroducing buttons to their products. This
're-buttonization' could be a response to everything becoming a
touchscreen. People like physical buttons because they don't have to
look at them and they offer a greater range of tactility and feedback.
This article contains an interview with Rachel Plotnick, an associate
professor of Cinema and Media Studies at Indiana University in
Bloomington, where she discusses the history of buttons, the rise of
touchscreens, the shift back to buttons and physical controls, and
more. 

‚ö° 

QUICK LINKS

 THE BUDGET HAWK ATOP A TECH GIANT'S $64 BILLION SPENDING SPREE (8
MINUTE READ) [16] 

 Microsoft's finance team has been reviewing the progress of projects
nearly daily, monitoring the status of chip orders, the construction
of new data centers, and the development and sales of AI software. 

 INCENTIVE INFRASTRUCTURE (9 MINUTE READ) [17] 

 Positive incentives are hard to design but have long-lasting positive
effects if done correctly. 

 C INTERMEDIATE LANGUAGE (CIL) (GITHUB REPO) [18] 

 CIL facilitates program analysis and transformation by parsing and
type-checking programs and compiling them into a simplified subset of
C. 

 EARLY APPLE M4 PRO AND M4 MAX BENCHMARKS HINT AT A MASSIVE
PERFORMANCE BOOST (2 MINUTE READ) [19] 

 The M4 Pro can smoothly outperform Mac Studio with the M2 Ultra. 

 LEAVING STRIPE (15 MINUTE READ) [20] 

 This post tells the story of one person's journey joining Stripe and
working there for four years. 

 Y COMBINATOR APPLICATION GUIDE (14 MINUTE READ) [21] 

 This is a simple guide on how to build successful applications and
avoid common pitfalls. 

Love TLDR? Tell your friends and get rewards!

 Share your referral link below with friends to get free TLDR swag! 

 https://refer.tldr.tech/5cbcb975/ [22] 

                 Track your referrals here. [23] 

Want to advertise in TLDR? üì∞

 If your company is interested in reaching an audience of tech
executives, decision-makers and engineers, you may want to ADVERTISE
WITH US [24]. 

 If you have any comments or feedback, just respond to this email! 

Thanks for reading, 
Dan Ni & Stephen Flanders 

If you don't want to receive future editions of TLDR, please
unsubscribe from TLDR [25] or manage all of your TLDR newsletter
subscriptions [26]. 